= Deep Roots (a DRAFT specification) =

Deep Roots is a format for describing root paths that can be dynamically extended to included multiple child elements, all belonging to a single concept family.  The purpose for Deep Roots is to enable the utilization of suffixes when expressing data on the semantic web.  Here we describe a general format using JSON so concepts/and prefixes can be mapped generically, using any type of application and any type of identifier.  Typically this will be done in the context of RDF or the semantic web but we are not restricting the usage to that domain.

Two primary data elements are required:

  * prefix = a URL prefix which can be an ARK, HTTP URL, or any other string.  There are NO restrictions here but we recommend that URIs are used and to avoid special characters that may be misinterpreted by web clients.
  * concept = a URI describing some concept.  This is typically a URI that describes some owl:Class or rdfs:Class.

= Why Deep Roots? =

Deep roots is a mechanism for expressing prefixes for sets of locally specific identifiers at the point of publication.   Deep roots describes a simple format, distinct from particular implementations, enabling a way to track prefixes in use for distinct datasets.  By recognizing identifier roots as distinct from minted suffixes, we hope to greatly expand the usability, discoverability, and adoption of globally unique identifiers, enabling linking between heterogenous systems on the web.
  
= Example Format =

{{{
[
    {
        "metadata": {
            "name": "a short name describing the dataset for which we are describing root paths",
            "description": "a detailed description of the dataset for which we are describing root paths",
            "guid":"a globally unique identifier for the dataset for which we are describing root paths",
            "date": "The data this was created"
        }
    },
    {
        "data": [
            {
                "concept": "http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/Occurrence",
                "prefix": "http://n2t.net/ark:/21547/R2"
            },
            {
                "concept": "http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/Event",
                "prefix": "http://n2t.net/ark:/21547/S2"
            }
        ]
    }
]
}}}

= Usage/ Future =
The BCID application implements a feature for generating Deep Roots files.   An example of this service is employed by calling the BCID project service for the HDIM project ([http://biscicol.org/id/projectService/deepRoots/HDIM http://biscicol.org/id/projectService/deepRoots/HDIM)].  Example code for generating this file can be found in the BCID code repository [https://code.google.com/p/bcid/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fsrc%2FdeepRoots here].

Any other application can generate the format simply by following the format in the example above.   Prefixes are not constrained to ARKs, HTTP URIs, or any other scheme.

The BiSciCol triplifier will soon be offering an example for consuming a Deep Roots file in order to generate dynamically assigned identifiers.