This page explains how to access a users profile details via OAuth2.

All developers need to register their app. Please contact the system admin to register. You will be issued a client_id and client_secret. The client_secret should be kept private.

= Authorization =

Client app will make a GET request to /id/authenticationService/oauth/authorize. This request will contain the following query parameters:
    * client_id (Required) - The client_id your app was issued during when registered.
    * redirect_uri (Required) - The absolute URI you would like the response directed to.
    * state (Optional) - Will be returned, unmodified, in the response. 

The response will contain the following query parameters:
    * code - The random 20 character string used to exchange for an access_token. This code expires in 10 mins and can only be used 1 time.
    * state - Only if this parameter was included in the request.

= Access Token =

Client app will make a POST request to /id/authenticationService/oauth/access_token. This request will contain the following parameters in the request body:
    * client_id (Required) - The client_id your app was issued during when registered.
    * client_secret (Required) - The client_secret your app was issued during when registered.
    * code (Required) - The authorization code received in the authorization request.
    * redirect_uri (Required) - The absolute URI you would like the response directed to. Must be identical to the redirect_uri provided in the authorization request.
    * state (Optional) - Will be returned, unmodified, in the response.

The JSON response will contain the following parameters:
    * access_token - The random 20 character string used to access a user's profile.
    * token_type - currently we only issue bearer tokens.
    * expires_in - the number of seconds the token is good for.
    * state - Only if this parameter was included in the request.

= API Access =

Currently, we only support access on behalf of the user to the profileService endpoint. In order to obtain a user's profile information, make a GET request to /id/userService/oauth with the access_token as a query parameter.

If the token is still valid, you will receive a JSON response with the following user information:
    * first_name
    * last_name
    * email
    * institution
    * user_id
    * username