#summary Working with Projects and Expeditions

NOTE: I STILL NEED TO ADD SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS ON THE UI FEATURES OF THE PROJECT/EXPEDITION SYSTEM.

= Introduction =

Recognizing the importance of linking identifiers to the source from which they came, the BCID system tracks projects and expeditions.  Multiple expeditions are contained with a single project.  

== Projects ==

A project defines a set of data held in common by a group of contributors.  The data from a single project shares common concepts, attributes, and validation rules.  It is owned by a project administrator user who has the power to set validation rules, concept mappings, and users that are permitted to share data under the project.  New projects are created infrequently and require super-user status to create (currently the owner of BCID site itself).   However, once created, project values can be edited by an assigned project administrator.

To create a new project, please contact the BCID owner.

== Datasets ==

Projects contain many datasets.  A dataset typically refers to an excel spreadsheet.  When loaded through the associated [http://code.google.com/p/biocode-fims/ biocode-fims] project, a reference to this dataset is stored as part of the BCID system with a unique ARK.  When a dataset is created, it is given a unique code, which is owned by the user that first uploaded it.  This user may choose, to re-load this dataset again, in which case a new reference will be loaded here.

Datasets can be created through the  [http://code.google.com/p/biocode-fims/ biocode-fims] tool.